Liquid is a template engine which was crafted for very specific requirements

* It has to have simple markup and beautiful results. Template engines which don't produce good looking results are no fun to use.
* It needs to be non-evaling and secure. Liquid templates are made so that users can edit them. You don't want to run code on your server which your users wrote.
* It has to be stateless. The compile and render steps have to be separate, so that the expensive parsing and compiling can be done once;  later on, you can just render it by passing in a hash with local variables and objects.
* It needs to be able to style emails as well as HTML.


h2. Stuff to read, watch, etc.

* [[Liquid for Programmers]] 
* [[Liquid for Designers]] 
* [[Getting Liquid to Work in Rails]]
* "Liquid Screencast":http://railscasts.com/episodes/118-liquid

h2. Who uses Liquid? 

* "Shopify (E-Commerce)":http://www.shopify.com
* "Tispira (CMS)":http://www.tispira.com
* "Zendesk (Support)":http://www.zendesk.com
* "Cashboard (Business Finance)":http://www.getcashboard.com
* "Chameleon (Blog Engine)":http://chameleon.wikidot.com
* "Edicy (CMS)":http://www.edicy.com
* "SandwichBoard (CMS)":http://www.sandwichboard.com
* "YikeSite (CMS)":http://www.yikesite.com
* "Simplicant (Applicant Tracking System)":http://www.simplicant.com/
* "3scale (API Management System)":http://www.3scale.net/
* "Press Publisher (Magazine Publishing System)":http://www.presspublisher.com/
* "Canadian Center for Architecture (CCA)":http://www.cca.qc.ca/
* "Ronin (Invoicing)":http://www.roninapp.com
* "EV-Manager (Parents Associations Management)":http://www.ev-manager.com


h2. Why should I use Liquid?

* You want to allow your users to edit the appearance of your application, but don't want them to run insecure code on your server.
* You want to render templates directly from the database.
* You like Smarty-style template engines.
* You need a template engine which does HTML just as well as emails.
* You don't like the markup language of your current template engine.
