Introduction-to-Drops.md, before:

# Introduction to Drops

Drops let you provide the user with custom functionality. They are very much like a standard Ruby class, but have all unused and potentially dangerous methods removed. From the user's perspective a drop acts very much like a Hash, though methods are accessed with dot-notation as well as element selection. A drop method cannot be invoked with arguments. Drops are called just-in-time, thus allowing you to lazily load objects.

## Standard drop methods:

before_method(method):

Called once for every invocation, even if the destination method doesn't exist. Can be used to provide dynamically named methods.

Example:

    class MembersDrop < Liquid::Drop

      def before_method(method)
        user = User.find_by_name(method)
        user ? UserDrop.new(user) : nil
      end

    end

### View

    {% assign user = members.ian %} {{ user.name }}

invoke_drop(method):

Called by liquid to invoke the target drop method.

has_key(name):

Currently returns true regardless.

to_liquid:

Returns the drop instance.

### Drop usage:

    class ProductDrop < Liquid::Drop

      def initialize(product)
        @product = product
      end

      def name
        @product["name"]
      end

      def description
        @product["description"]
      end

      def price
        @product["price"]
      end

    end

### Controller 

    file = File.read(product_view.liquid)
    template = Liquid::Template.parse(file)
    drop = ProductDrop.new(@product)
    template.render('product' => drop)

### View

    Viewing product: {{ product.name }} <br/><br /> {{ product.description }} <br /> £{{ product.price }}

Commit message:

Added Multiple Drops example, added comments in the code to clarify a string is needed for assigns

Introduction-to-Drops.md, after:

# Introduction to Drops

Drops let you provide the user with custom functionality. They are very much like a standard Ruby class, but have all unused and potentially dangerous methods removed. From the user's perspective a drop acts very much like a Hash, though methods are accessed with dot-notation as well as element selection. A drop method cannot be invoked with arguments. Drops are called just-in-time, thus allowing you to lazily load objects.

## Standard drop methods:

before_method(method):

Called once for every invocation, even if the destination method doesn't exist. Can be used to provide dynamically named methods.

Example:

    class MembersDrop < Liquid::Drop

      def before_method(method)
        user = User.find_by_name(method)
        user ? UserDrop.new(user) : nil
      end

    end

### View

    {% assign user = members.ian %} {{ user.name }}

invoke_drop(method):

Called by liquid to invoke the target drop method.

has_key(name):

Currently returns true regardless.

to_liquid:

Returns the drop instance.

### Drop usage:

    class ProductDrop < Liquid::Drop

      def initialize(product)
        @product = product
      end

      def name
        @product["name"]
      end

      def description
        @product["description"]
      end

      def price
        @product["price"]
      end

    end

### Controller 

    file = File.read(product_view.liquid)
    template = Liquid::Template.parse(file)
    drop = ProductDrop.new(@product)
    template.render('product' => drop) # Please note the hash assignment is a string, not a symbol

### View

    Viewing product: {{ product.name }} <br/><br /> {{ product.description }} <br /> £{{ product.price }} 

### Multiple Drops
You can use assigns to assign multiple drops before you call render. This can be useful to keep the render statement clean, while still maintaining functionality. 

    file = File.read(product_view.liquid)
    template = Liquid::Template.parse(file)
    template.assigns['product'] = ProductDrop.new(@product) # Please note the hash assignment is a string, not a symbol
    template.assigns['collections'] = CollectionDrop.new(@product.collections)
    template.render
